Terminus | Complete Map Breakdown

A jailbreak on a secluded island pits unlikely partners against the undead. Unlock the laboratory's secrets, recruit a strangely familiar ally, and avenge gruesome crimes against nature.

This guide is broken down into Chapters and Topics, a Chapter defines the content of the Topics to make all of the guides easier to navigate and read.

On the right, there is a list of all the Chapters, Topics and Sub-Topics. Just click on the text of whatever you want to know about and you will be taken there. Alternatively, to find specific information, press CTRL + F and type the information you want to find.
Key Map Features

This is a walkthrough of the general features of the map, such as Pack-a-Punch, Main Quest, etc.
Pack-a-Punch

    Activate the 3 highlighted AMP generators around the map.

    Dive into the water into the Bio Lab to activate the elevator and reveal Pack-a-Punch

Beamsmasher

    Obtain a weapon with the Dead Wire ammo mod. Activate the Pack-a-Punch elevator and while riding it, across from the Pack-a-Punch there is a window with a fuse box you must shoot with Dead Wire. Follow the electricity that spouts from it to other fuse boxes and shoot them.

    Once all the fuse boxes have been shot, a door will open up next to the Living Quarters. Inside the Beamsmasher room, kill the zombie trapped under fallen debris. It will drop a keycard.

    Take the keycard to the Sea Tower. There is a briefcase with a zombie hand on it that can be opened with the keycard. A Multiphasic Resonator will be inside it that you need to pick up.

    Take the Multiphasic Resonator to the room that was opened and place it in the decoding machine. A code will need to be inputted to activate the Multiphasic Resonator you inserted.

    The code can be obtained in 2 ways. If you want to take the simple route and skip to step 7, wait a bit, Peck will offer to give you the code if you pay him enough points. This can be done at the Guard Station. OR Find 3 computers around the map and turn them on. Locations are:
        Under the Sea Tower at the Docks
        Outside the Interrogation Room at the Storage Area
        Outside the Communications Room

    The computers will give you 3 symbols that will be added as sticky notes on the decoding machine in the Beamsmasher room. These symbols can be used to determine your numbers for X, Y, and Z using the white boards next to the buildable table. The white board can be read like this. (Note: The sticky notes will only show up on the machine once you interact with it after turning on the computers around the map). Using your known X/Y/Z numbers. You can do the following equations manually or by using this webtool to find the numbers to enter into the machine.
        Number 1 = 2(X) + 11 (Note: 2(X) means 2 multiplied by X, disregard the + 11 until you have already multiplied 2 and X)
        Number 2 = (2(Z) + Y) - 5
        Number 3 = |(Y + Z) - X| (Note: The lines around this mean this is an absolute value. This means that if the number you end up getting is negative, treat it like a positive. For example, if you do the equation and you get -5, the number for the machine is 5)

    Once you have entered the correct code into the machine, you must wait a couple rounds until the device is ready. Peck and Strauss will notify you when it is done. Pick up the device and go to Castle Rock Island (island on right side of the map, marked on the computer screen).

    Head to Castle Rock Island, and a blue orb will be present there. Walk up to the orb and interact with it to start a trial. The orb will occasionally shoot zombies with a laser. Once you kill the zombie shot by the laser, it will drop a small energy orb, Interact with the small orb to pick it up and walk into the main large orb with it in your hand.

    Once 2 orbs have been brought to the main orb, it will drop a part. Pick it up and follow the orb to the next island it travels to (Crab Island, south of the map).

    Complete the same step as previous on Crab Island and Temple Island (northwest of the map). The orb will go from blue, to green, and then purple. After completing all 3 colors, an LTG Ammo part will drop and can be picked up.

    The Beamsmasher can be built in the room you opened originally on the crafting table.

The Beamsmasher is able to be upgraded by using the Pack-A-Punch machine up to 3 times.
Main Quest
Steps

    Obtain a Beamsmasher wonder weapon. Go to one of the 3 Tentacle traps around the map and shoot it with the Beamsmasher when it is activated. When the correct one is shot it will drop a Hard Drive. The correct trap is the one that is visibly damaged with a broken grate.

    Take the Hard Drive to the Guard Station where Peck and Strauss are located and insert it into the slot under the window. You can then go down to the middle of the Bio Lab to reveal Nathan's chamber by interacting with the main window/keypad on it.

    You need to find a 3-digit code around the map. Once you find the code you can use the keypad at Nathan's chamber to input it.
        Code 1 is found by going to the Interrogation Room and looking at the clock behind the barrier. The main hour hand of the clock is the first digit. ((Note: If the time is say, 7:35, the hour hand will be between 7 and 8. This means the number is 7)*
        Code 2 is found by going to the Mess Hall/Kitchen area. There is a playing card on a corkboard. The number is whatever is on the playing card.
        Code 3 is found by going to the Engineering room. In there a sign dictating how many days since incident is on the wall. The number on that sign is the digit you need.

    Once you input the code, the chamber is ready to open. All players in the game need to interact with the valves on the chamber and the bossfight with Nathan will begin. Nathan is an Amalgam and has the same weaknesses as other Amalgam (Dead Wire and Shadow Rift). Once he is defeated you will watch a cutscene.

    Jumping into the water next to Nathan's corpse, you can find a keycard. Next, head to the Communications room and interact with a computer that has a black screen and green text. Peck will tell you that the communications line has been cut, and that they require reconnecting with Node Connectors.

    Go to the Shipwreck. Underneath the Shipwreck there is a ladder you can go up to find a room containing the Node Connectors. The room only opens once you have the aforementioned Keycard. Once you pick up a Node Connector you will have to complete a lockdown in that room. Once the lockdown is over, a Max Ammo will spawn. After this, take the Node Connectors to two of the following areas, where there will be a visible gap to install the connectors.
        Right side of Sea Cave
        Underneath the Sea Tower at the Docks
        Leftmost side of Crab Island

    Once both connectors are placed, head back to the Guard Station and grab the hacking device.

    In the water, there are 3 buoys you need to hack by going up to them by boat and interacting with them while having the hacking device in your inventory. You can use your map and see where a lot of red dots (Parasites) are and use that as a guide for where the buoys are. The hacking is on a timer so you must do all 3 in succession or else you will need to start over. The 3 buoys are located near the Docks, the Shipwreck, and Temple Island, and can be hacked in any order.

    3 bombs behind revealed doors will need to be defused in the Bio Lab immediately after hacking the 3 satellites. You have 5 minutes to defuse the bombs or else the entire island will explode, killing you. During this step an infinite amount of zombies will spawn. Manglers can spawn after defusing the first bomb, while Amalgams will spawn after defusing the second bomb.

    Once all the bombs are defused you can now interact with a door next to Melee Macchiato to initiate the Final Encounter.

Patient 13 Bossfight

    The bossfight will begin with Patient 13 having weak spots on its shoulders. They are glowing red and damaging them will deal increased damage to Patient 13 (extra damage can be dealt to these spots using Napalm Burst ammo mod). These glowing spots will change position sporadically throughout the phase.

    When Patient 13 has taken enough damage, it will leave the area for a short while. You are required to survive the hordes of zombies and various tentacles shooting projectiles at you. Notably, some of the projectile attacks may leave behind a green acidic puddle on the ground, which will damage you if you stand in there. After surviving long enough, Patient 13 will return to the arena. A Max Ammo will spawn at this point allowing players to replenish.

    When Patient 13 comes back, it can be in one of two states. In one state, its arms will have weak points similar to the tentacles (extra damage can be dealt here using Dead Wire ammo mod). Once those have been damaged enough it will change to the other state, where its mouth will be a weak point (also weak to Cryofreeze ammo mod). The rest of Patient 13's body will be coated in armor, greatly reducing the amount of damage it will take when being damaged on areas besides its weak point. Once damaged enough, Patient 13 will leave once more, and you have to survive for some time before it returns for the third phase. Another Max Ammo will spawn to signal the beginning of the new phase.

    In the third phase, Patient 13 will gain a few more attacks. Notably, it will have an attack where it will start to summon a mass of blue energy above its head and you will have a faint blue aura around your screen. Be sure to hide behind crates in the boss arena or jump in the water to break the boss's line-of-sight from you. If you are hit by the attack you will instantly be put into Last Stand.

    Another attack Patient 13 can do is extend its tongue. It will extend its tongue and any player hit by it will begin to be dragged into the boss's mouth. If you are grabbed, aim to hit weak points on the boss (the red shoulders from the initial phase) as it is the only way to be broken free. If dragged into the mouth, you will be instantly spit out and put into Last Stand.

    When it has take enough damage, its eyes will become a glowing blue weak spot (which can be dealt extra damage with Shadow Rift ammo mod). Once the eyes have been destroyed the boss will cycle between which weak points are available to damage until it is killed.

Side Easter Eggs

This is a walkthrough of all of the side Easter Eggs in *Terminus *
'Can You Hear Me (Come In)' Song

Listen here

Find three Mister Peeks Headphones around the map:

    Engineering

    Mining Tunnels

    Bio Lab (3rd Floor)

Mega Stuffy

    Collect 6 stuffed animals across the map
        The unicorn is in a locker inside Communications next to Stamin-Up
        The monkey is behind the right-side fence on the bridge between the Sea Tower and Engineering
        The bear is under a table in the Bio Lab, near the crafting table
        The elephant is in the Mining Tunnels in a corner
        The duck is in the red bin next to the mystery box on the Shipwreck
        The giraffe is behind a light on Crab Island, you may need to crouch to interact with it

    Once all 6 are collected, you can go to Living Quarters and interact with any plush on a bed. They will all fly to the middle of the room and become a "pet" that will revive you and shoot zombies. If you shoot the plushies instead of just interacting with them, they will appear tattered in the room. In turn, they will not give you extra rewards such as equipment and salvage when interacting with them.

Void Cannon Meteor

Outside the map around the prison area, there are 2 radio towers that are able to be shot with Pack-a-Punch'd gun with Dead Wire equipped. Once you shoot both towers in succession, you will be on a time limit to continue to the next round and then activate the Void Cannon trap to shoot down a meteor. The meteor will fall onto Castle Rock Island, at the area it fell there will be various loot ranging from Ammo Mods, salvage, score streaks, and wonder weapons you can pick up. Radio Tower images as follows:

    Tower 1
    Tower 2

Pirate Treasure Hunt/Talisman

    Obtain the Melee Macchiato perk and head to the Sea Caves. There is a barrier you must punch to open up.

    Inside the opened barrier there is a skeleton, map, and a chest. Interact with the skeleton. Note where on the map has the X and go to that location on the map to pick up a Watch from within the Sea.

    Bring the Watch to the skeleton. Once you do, 3 more X's will appear on the map (Castle Rock Island, Temple Island, Shipwreck). At all the locations designated by the map, there is a skeleton you must throw a Molotov or Thermal Grenade at to light on fire.

    Once the skeletons are lit on fire, an HVT (High Value Target boss enemy) will spawn. Kill the HVT to obtain a coin. Picking up the coin will cause a purple aether glow to appear around your screen.

    Bring all 3 coins to the skeleton, it will drop you 3 legendary tier guns.

    One last X will appear on the map next to the skeleton. Go to the location and survive 3 rounds on it. As you progress, more and more lighting will appear and a storm will gather above you.

    When you have survived long enough, a chest will spawn while lightning is striking the ground. A Cursed Talisman is inside the chest for you to pick up. This will earn you an achievement/trophy.

The Cursed Talisman will cause you to lose points when you are hit by a zombie, but you will also gain more points when killing zombies.
Whack-A-Crab

    Go to Crab Island and throw a piece of lethal equipment (or shoot an explosive round) at the crab cage shown in [this image]().

    Several groups of crabs will appear around Crab Island, melee them to start Whack-A-Mole

A game of Whack-A-Mole will start, it has a 30 second timer and your objective is to hit as many crabs as possible with your melee attack within the given time limit.

How well you perform in the game will determine the amount and quality of the reward you receive. Each group of crabs provides different rewards, as follows:

TBD
Parasite Spores/Free Perk

Around the map in the Sea, various rocks/islands will have spores on them (similar to spores found in MW3 Zombies or Zetsubou No Shima). Shooting the spores on the islands will cause Parasite enemies to spawn out of them. Once all the spores on an island have been shot you will receive an audio notification. Doing this removes the tentacle from attacking you in the water for a limited time (this is helpful during the hacking step of the main EE).

Repeat this at other islands for a total of 3 times. You will have to progress a round each time after destroying all the spores on a specific island. Once all the spores have been destroyed you can go to the Sea Cave to destroy more spores. Once they are all destroyed you will receive a free Random Perk drop and varying loot.
Culinary Delight (Cook a Fish)

    Go to the Sea and look for a group of red fish. Use an explosive to kill the fish and collect it.

    Collect oil next to the stove in the Mess Hall.

    Around the map there are various other items required to cook the fish. Certain items will cause different effects to occur when you use an Alternate-Ammo-Type (AAT).
        Can of Chili (Napalm Burst) - On a counter in the Mess Hall
        Snowball (Cryofreeze) - On top of the fridge in the Living Quarters
        Brain (Brain Rot) - Bio Lab on a medical table
        Mushroom (Shadow Rift) - In a grass patch outside the Storage Area
        Battery (Dead Wire) - Inside Engineering

    Go to the pans on the stove in the Mess Hall and place your ingredients into one of the pans. They should start to be cooked and be on fire.

    Progress a round and then interact with the pan. You should eat the fish and earn an achievement. (Note: Ensure to gather all the ingredients you want to use before placing them to avoid burning the ingredients in the pan)

Each specific item when cooked with the fish will correlate to receiving a boost with your AAT for the remainder of the current round after eating the fish. You are able to use all ingredients at 1 time to cause the flames on the pan to be rainbow but the effects of this are unknown.

Cooking a fish and collecting it without using any additional ingredients will allow you to give the fish to Peck if you paid him points to obtain the code for the Beamsmasher. Doing so will provide you with the points you bribed him with.
Free Power-Ups

Around Terminus, there are statues of various power-ups available for you to shoot. Once they have been shot, the corresponding power-up will appear at your location.

Locations as follows:

    Insta-Kill - Temple Island above a zombie spawn window on a wall
    Bonus Points - In the top right-most window of the Shipwreck when looking at it from the front
    Nuke - Inside a barrier on Crab Island
    Full Power - Under the inaccessible Sea Tower. Can be hit from a raft, or from Sea Tower's balcony
    Full Armor - []()
    Double Points - In the Bio Lab behind a shelf
    Max Ammo - Throwing a grenade/shooting an explosive into a watch tower outside the spawn area

Elevator Jumpscare

Jumping while taking the Elevator from the Holding Cells to the Bio Lab will occasionally cause a horror sequence to occur.
Oxygen Mask

Head into the water in the Bio Lab. In the water near the bottom where you activate the pack-a-punch lift there is a rock with bubbles coming out of it. Using an explosive, you can break the rock to reveal an Oxygen Tank/Mask. Interacting with it will give you more time to swim underwater without drowning for the rest of the game. This will only work for 1 player in the match for the entire duration of the match.
Free Random Perk Drops

    Collecting all 10 hidden chests in the Sea (loot caches with glowing yellow lights) will provide you with a Random Perk drop. Once opening the 10th one the drop will spawn above it.

    Shooting all the zombies in the cages of the Bio Lab will cause Vermin to spawn in them the next round. If you do the same to the Vermin, Manglers will spawn the round after. After killing the Manglers you will receive a Random Perk drop. There is a fail-state Where if you fail to kill all the caged enemies once one has died within a round will cause the next set of enemies to not appear in the cages when going to the next round.

Basketball Trickshot

Shooting the basketball above the Living Quarters from outside the Engineering building with a Pack-A-Punch'd weapon can cause it to fall into the hoop below it in the Rec Yard . If you manage to hit the shot correctly, 2000 points will come out of the hoop for you to pick up.
Sentinel Artifact Fast Travel

Shooting the alternate fire mode of the Beamsmasher (the one that projects a wave) at the chalk drawing of the Sentinel Artifact on Temple Island will cause you to be teleported back to the prison.
Free Perkaholic

Around the Sea of Terminus, there are groups of 3 fish that will be in the water. Killing 50(?) of the groups of fish with explosives will reward you with all the perks currently available to you.
Boat Race

In the Waters around the 3 smaller islands on the map there is a pink toy speed boat in the water that can have a flashing red light. Interact with the boat that has the red light will start the boat race,

Once you complete the race, Mr. Peeks will appear and drop a trophy containing your rewards based on your performance. You can receive a bronze, silver, or gold-tier trophy.
Free Pool Table Points

Shooting the [pool balls on the pool table inside Living Quarters]() will sink all the balls and spawn a free 100 points available for you to pick up.